
# Approximate Predictions Feature Selector (AP Feature Selector)

This scikit-learn implementation of the Approximate Predictions Feature Selector is based on Samuele Mazzanti's article on <a href="https://medium.com/data-science/approximate-predictions-make-feature-selection-radically-faster-0f9664877687">Medium</a>.

# Motivation

In the Medium article, Mazzanti describes Feature selection as "so slow because it requires the creation of many models." He said he was going to show "how to make it blazingly faster thanks to approximate-predictions".

Motivated by his article and method, I began experimenting with how I would implement such a Feature Selection method since I am always curious to know about new feature selection methods (see my <a href="https://github.com/AutoViML/featurewiz">featurewiz</a> and <a hred="https://github.com/AutoViML/featurewiz_polars">featurewiz_polars</a> libraries).

After several experiments, I have come up with a decent scikit-learn implementation of the method for both regression and classification problems. In future, I can add some categorical encoders and imputers to make sure it is able to handle all kinds of data. If anyone is interested in collaborating on this project, please let me know.

# Setup
The library is available in the ap_feature_selector.py file. You can import it into your project and use it as a scikit-learn transformer. That's all!

# Testing
I have provided two notebooks  in the "notebooks" folder to test it:
`ap_test_notebook.ipynb` provides you a quick code snippet to test the library on 3 different problems with 3 different datasets.

`ap_test_notebook_results.ipynb` provides rich visualization of the test results that are generated by the library.

In addition, I have provided a sample of datasets and a python script that you can use to test this library.
Just use the following command to run the script:

`python ap_feature_selector_test.py`

It will automatically download the datasets from PyCaret's GitHub repository and test the library on them. It will also generate a csv file with the results and another csv file with any errors that occurred during the test.

# Conclusion
I hope this library will be useful to all.

If you have any comments or feedback, please let me know via my GitHub email ID in my profile page.


Copyright 2025, Ram Seshadri
